README.md, before:

# rodinia-hls
Private repository for hosting the Rodinia HLS version for HiAccel

## Download

```shell
git clone https://github.com/SFU-HiAccel/rodinia-hls.git
```

## Setup Requirements
1. **Evaluated hardware platforms:**
  + **Host OS**
    + 64-bit Ubuntu 16.04.6 LTS
  + **Cloud FPGA**
    + Xilinx Alveo U200 - DDR4-based FPGA
2. **Software tools:**
   + **HLS tool**
     + Vitis 2019.2
     + Xilinx Runtime(XRT) 2019.2

## Usage
Each kernel has folders for baseline version and multiple optimizations and a ``data`` folder.

In ``data folder``, there are ``input.data`` as input data and ``check.data`` as reference data. 

In each baseline or optimization folder, you can run software emulation, hardware emulation and compile the kernel into FPGA hardware:

+ Generate the design for specified Target and Device:

```shell
make all TARGET=<sw_emu/hw_emu/hw> DEVICE=<FPGA platform>
```

+ Run application in emulation or hardware
```shell
make check TARGET=<sw_emu/hw_emu/hw> DEVICE=<FPGA platform>
```

+ Use ``make clean`` to remove all generated non-hardware files. 

+ Use ``make cleanall`` to remove all generated files. 

## Kernel Introduction

You can find more details on [Rodinia Website](https://rodinia.cs.virginia.edu/doku.php).

### Backpropgation

Back Propagation is a machine-learning algorithm that trains the weights of connecting nodes on a layered neural network. 

### CFD 

The CFD solver is an unstructured grid finite volume solver for the three-dimensional Euler equations for compressible flow. Effective GPU memory bandwidth is improved by reducing total global memory access and overlapping redundant computation, as well as using an appropriate numbering scheme and data layout.

### HotSpot

HotSpot is a widely used tool to estimate processor temperature based on an architectural floorplan and simulated power measurements.

### Kmeans

K-means is a clustering algorithm used extensively in data-mining and elsewhere, important primarily for its simplicity. Many data-mining algorithms show a high degree of data parallelism.

### KNN

NN (Nearest Neighbor) finds the k-nearest neighbors from an unstructured data set. The sequential NN algorithm reads in one record at a time, calculates the Euclidean distance from the target latitude and longitude, and evaluates the k nearest neighbors. 

### LavaMD

The code calculates particle potential and relocation due to mutual forces between particles within a large 3D space.

### Leukocyte

The leukocyte application detects and tracks rolling leukocytes (white blood cells) in in vivo video microscopy of blood vessels. The velocity of rolling leukocytes provides important information about the inflammation process, which aids biomedical researchers in the development of anti-inflammatory medications.

### LUD

LU Decomposition is an algorithm to calculate the solutions of a set of linear equations. The LUD kernel decomposes a matrix as the product of a lower triangular matrix and an upper triangular matrix.

### NW

Needleman-Wunsch is a nonlinear global optimization method for DNA sequence alignments.

### PathFinder

PathFinder uses dynamic programming to find a path on a 2-D grid from the bottom row to the top row with the smallest accumulated weights, where each step of the path moves straight ahead or diagonally ahead. 

### SRAD

SRAD (Speckle Reducing Anisotropic Diffusion) is a diffusion method for ultrasonic and radar imaging applications based on partial differential equations (PDEs).

### StreamCluster

For a stream of input points, it finds a predetermined number of medians so that each point is assigned to its nearest center. The quality of the clustering is measured by the sum of squared distances (SSQ) metric.

Commit message:

update README team info and reference

README.md, after:

# rodinia-hls
Rodinia-hls is a HLS version of Rodinia Benchmark from HiAccel group. 

If you use Rodinia-hls in your research, please cite out FCCM 2018 paper:

> J. Cong, Z. Fang, M. Lo, H. Wang, J. Xu and S. Zhang, "Understanding Performance Differences of FPGAs and GPUs," 2018 IEEE 26th Annual International Symposium on Field-Programmable Custom Computing Machines (FCCM), Boulder, CO, 2018

## Download

```shell
git clone https://github.com/SFU-HiAccel/rodinia-hls.git
```

## Setup Requirements
1. **Evaluated hardware platforms:**
  + **Host OS**
    + 64-bit Ubuntu 16.04.6 LTS
  + **Cloud FPGA**
    + Xilinx Alveo U200 - DDR4-based FPGA
2. **Software tools:**
   + **HLS tool**
     + Vitis 2019.2
     + Xilinx Runtime(XRT) 2019.2

## Usage
Each kernel has folders for baseline version and multiple optimizations and a ``data`` folder.

In ``data folder``, there are ``input.data`` as input data and ``check.data`` as reference data. 

In each baseline or optimization folder, you can run software emulation, hardware emulation and compile the kernel into FPGA hardware:

+ Generate the design for specified Target and Device:

```shell
make all TARGET=<sw_emu/hw_emu/hw> DEVICE=<FPGA platform>
```

+ Run application in emulation or hardware
```shell
make check TARGET=<sw_emu/hw_emu/hw> DEVICE=<FPGA platform>
```

+ Use ``make clean`` to remove all generated non-hardware files. 

+ Use ``make cleanall`` to remove all generated files. 

## Team Members:

Stuedents: [Alec Lu](http://www.sfu.ca/~fla30/), [Weihua Liu](http://www.sfu.ca/~weihual/), [Xingyu Tian](http://www.sfu.ca/~xingyut/)
Faculty: [Zhenman Fang](http://www.sfu.ca/~zhenman/group.html)

## Kernel Introduction

You can find more details on [Rodinia Website](https://rodinia.cs.virginia.edu/doku.php).

### Backpropgation

Back Propagation is a machine-learning algorithm that trains the weights of connecting nodes on a layered neural network. 

### CFD 

The CFD solver is an unstructured grid finite volume solver for the three-dimensional Euler equations for compressible flow. Effective GPU memory bandwidth is improved by reducing total global memory access and overlapping redundant computation, as well as using an appropriate numbering scheme and data layout.

### HotSpot

HotSpot is a widely used tool to estimate processor temperature based on an architectural floorplan and simulated power measurements.

### Kmeans

K-means is a clustering algorithm used extensively in data-mining and elsewhere, important primarily for its simplicity. Many data-mining algorithms show a high degree of data parallelism.

### KNN

NN (Nearest Neighbor) finds the k-nearest neighbors from an unstructured data set. The sequential NN algorithm reads in one record at a time, calculates the Euclidean distance from the target latitude and longitude, and evaluates the k nearest neighbors. 

### LavaMD

The code calculates particle potential and relocation due to mutual forces between particles within a large 3D space.

### Leukocyte

The leukocyte application detects and tracks rolling leukocytes (white blood cells) in in vivo video microscopy of blood vessels. The velocity of rolling leukocytes provides important information about the inflammation process, which aids biomedical researchers in the development of anti-inflammatory medications.

### LUD

LU Decomposition is an algorithm to calculate the solutions of a set of linear equations. The LUD kernel decomposes a matrix as the product of a lower triangular matrix and an upper triangular matrix.

### NW

Needleman-Wunsch is a nonlinear global optimization method for DNA sequence alignments.

### PathFinder

PathFinder uses dynamic programming to find a path on a 2-D grid from the bottom row to the top row with the smallest accumulated weights, where each step of the path moves straight ahead or diagonally ahead. 

### SRAD

SRAD (Speckle Reducing Anisotropic Diffusion) is a diffusion method for ultrasonic and radar imaging applications based on partial differential equations (PDEs).

### StreamCluster

For a stream of input points, it finds a predetermined number of medians so that each point is assigned to its nearest center. The quality of the clustering is measured by the sum of squared distances (SSQ) metric.
